# X.509

# Links

* [X.509 - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X.509)
* [certover.pdf](https://www.blackhat.com/presentations/bh-usa-99/EdGerck/certover.pdf) 
* [PKI for busy people](https://rehn.me/posts/pki-for-busy-people.html)

# Overview

Of course, a private communication with a thief is not secure just because it
is private.

Absolute certification methods are a logical impossibility, because
a certificate cannot certify itself.

# What problem X.509 solved

The problem here is, when you send messages to someone encryption with his
public key, or  verify messages with the public key, , How do you **TRUST** the
public key you got is really his ?, That is,

You need to know the bank is the bank, and, the bank need to know that you are
you.


# Basics


They allow doing two things:

* Encrypt a message with the public key, decrypt it with the private key
* Sign a message with the private key, verify it with the public key

## what is it, X.509

It’s a flexible format for representing certificates.

`X.509` certificates are written in `ASN.1`. The ASN.1 is usually serialized
into `DER`. Since binary data can be a pain to transmit, it’s often further
encoded into `PEM`. PEM is essentially just `Base64-encoded` DER.

**it assumes we trust the CAs**

## What is Certificate

## Structure of a certificate

```
    Certificate
        Version Number
        Serial Number
        Signature Algorithm ID
        Issuer Name
        Validity period
            Not Before
            Not After
        Subject name
        Subject Public Key Info
            Public Key Algorithm
            Subject Public Key
        Issuer Unique Identifier (optional)
        Subject Unique Identifier (optional)
        Extensions (optional)
            ...
    Certificate Signature Algorithm
    Certificate Signature
```

## What is CertificateRequest

## What is PKI

# Summary

1. With someone’s public key, we can verify their signatures and send them
   encrypted messages
1. With our private key, we can sign messages and decrypt messages sent to us  
   It works unless our public key is certified by a **trusted** CA. 
1. Certificates identify public key owners
1. We trust a certificate because we trust the CA that signed it
   So, be careful with your brower, It may have **untrusted** CA in it.
1. We trust the CA because Apple/Google/Microsoft/whoever added the CA’s
   certificate on the server/etc. trusts them
